# solace-codelab-bootstrap

This is a small bootstrap for developing codelabs.

## What's a Codelab?

"Codelabs are interactive instructional tutorials, which can be authored in Google Docs using some simple formatting conventions. You can also author codelabs using markdown syntax. This repo contains all the tools and documentation you’ll need for building and publishing your own codelabs."

## What does this bootstrap do for me?

This bootstrap automates filling in some of Solace specific values in the Codelab boilerplate, as well as give you a filewatcher that will automatically rebuild your codelab every time you save the main markdown file.

## Getting started

This bootstrap assumes you have Node.js on your computer. If you don't, download it [here](https://nodejs.org/en/).

First, clone this repository and install the dependencies required to run nodemon:

```
git clone https://github.com/andrew-j-roberts/solace-codelab-bootstrap.git
cd solace-codelab-bootstrap
npm i
```

Then, replace `<unique name of your codelab>` in the command below, run it, and get to work:

```
chmod +x init.sh
./init.sh <unique name of your codelab>
```

## Using the "watch" command

Fill out the boilerplate in the top of the `<unique name of your codelab>.md` file according to the instructions found here, and then run this command to start watching the markdown file that was just generated by the bootstrap init script:

```
npm run watch
```

Now, whenever you save your codelab will rebuild and be served locally!

## TODO

The watch command has to kill the process Codelab uses to serve, :9090 in this case. If you look in `pacakge.json` you'll see that there's a command there to kill the process that owns port 9090... but it's for Unix-like operating systems.

So, if you use a Windows PC, I'd love for you to make a PR against this repo to include Powershell commands :)

Follow [this link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58605392/port-3000-is-already-in-use-nodemon-app-crashed-waiting-for-file-changes-bef) where it describes how you might do that using Windows, I have no way to check!
